# Glimpse of Grace
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/2jJmhz-4_3A

## Overview
The project is a web application which presents a quiz to the user about the popular video game "Elden Ring". The technologies used in building this application are Python, Flask, Jinja, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQLite3 and Bootstrap.
The web application is made up of multiple part which are, the homepage, questions page, results page and leaderboard.

## Homepage

The homepage gives a short description about the webpage and also asks for a username to display in the leaderboard, The user can start the quiz by clicking the start button in the homepage after entering a username

## Questions
The user is presented 10 Multiple choice questions to answer, the questions, the choices and the answer are stored in a dictionary in app.py, Every time the quiz starts the options are randomized to preserve fairness. The user can move between questions and can submit his answers once all the questions have been answered. The button are dynamically displayed  based on  the question number the user is on, for instance the previous button disappearing for the first question and the next button disappearing for the final question and being replace by the submit button. The questions are presented one after the other by editing their CSS style through JavaScript to only show when the relevant question number is present.

## Results
Once the user submits his answers, they are redircted to the results page Here flask handles the backend and  updates the users table in the database and creates a record for the new user if  the username entered by the user does not already exist within the database, it also updates the scores table with the relevant score. If the username already exists that means this is a user who is trying again so a new record will not be created in the users table but the scores table will be updated with a new score only if the new score is higher than the users existing score.
In the results page the user is presented with one of three possible images depending on his score a praiseful motivating message for a high score , an encouraging message for a medium score and a taunting message for a low score. This feedback is designed to encourage and motivate the users and provide them a sense of achievement.  The user can then proceed to move to the leaderboard from this page

## Leaderboard
The leaderboard presents the list of participants sorted by the highest score so users can see how their perfomance compares to the others
The leaderboard is generated by iterating through the scores table in the database and retrieving the scores of all the users and sorts them by descending order. The user can retry the quiz from this page , if he does so he will be redirected to the homepage. If the same user plays again the score is updated if the score is higher than the user's current best


